---
title: "Lists (tasks)"
date: "10 juni 2020"
---






# Lists (tasks)

## Tasks

### Building a list {#createList}

Three people received different sets of scores:

- `Amy`: 1,6,7,9,10
- `Bob`: 6,7,4,3,5,2,2,1,4
- `Dan`: 9,9,10

- build a list `scores` with numeric vector elements. The elements should be named as the people, and they should contain the corresponding scores.


- check `class` and `str` of `scores`


- list names of all objects in `scores`


- Get scores of `Bob` using single brackets, double brackets, and dollar notation: what is the class of returned value for each of these methods?



### Accessing list elements {#elementsList} (*)

- Repeat the previous exercise to get simultanously scores of `c( "Bob", "Dan" )`. Check the result and its class. (*)



- Extend `scores` by adding some scores of `Eve`. (*)



- `Dan` received new scores: 7,4,9. Add them to his vector. (*)



- There is a mistake. `Bob` does not belong to this group. Remove `Bob` from the list. (*)



### A nested list (*)

- extend the previous example. Imagine, that there are scores of various topics. Try:

```r
scores <- list(
  Amy = list(
    math = c( 1,6,7,9,10 ),
    biology = c( 7,6,8 )
  ),
  Bob = list(
    math = c( 6,7,4,3,5,2,2,1,4 ),
    physics = c( 8,7 )
  ),
  Dan = list(
    math = c( 9,9,10 ),
    physics = c( 10, 10, 10 ),
    biology = c( 3, 5, 7 )
  )
)
```

- check `class` and `str` of `scores` (*)


- how many elements are in the `scores` list (*)


- get `Dan` scores in `physics` (*)



# (*) Histogram

- Make a histogram of `age` from the survey data.



- Change the title of the plot to `Histogram of Age`. Hint: use the slot `main` in the function call.



- Check the class of the object generated by the function `hist`. Also check the names of the components within the object generated.



- Check the length of components `breaks` and `counts`. Also check the class of components `breaks` and `xname`. What do you conclude about the type of object generated by the function `hist`?



- What is the exact count in the first bin? Hint: use the component `counts` from the object.



- How many breaks does the produced histogram contain? Hint: use the component `breaks` from the object as well as the function `length`.



# (*) Boxplot

- Make a boxplot of `age` from the survey data.



- Save the boxplot as an object and check its class and the names of its components.



- Consulting the help file of `boxplot`, section 'Value', try to understand to what parts of the plot the values in the component `stats` of the boxplot object correspond to. Compare values to what you see on the boxlot itself.



- Compute the median, the upper- and lowe-quartile of the `age` variable. Hint: use the function `quantile` with slot `probs` equal to 0.5, 0.25 and 0.75 to obtain these. Now compare these values to the values in the `stats` component of the boxplot object. What do you conclude about the computation of the values in `stats`?

- Check the help file for `boxplot.stats`, which is the function called by `boxplot` to actually produce the values in `stats` (see the entry under the 'See also' section of the boxplot help file). Was your conclusion correct?

